# Reference

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: This document was generated by Puppet Strings -->

## Table of Contents

### Classes

* [`allknowingdns`](#allknowingdns): Install and configure allknowingdns using puppet.

## Classes

### <a name="allknowingdns"></a>`allknowingdns`

Install and configure allknowingdns using puppet.

#### Examples

##### 

```puppet
class { 'allknowingdns':
  listen  => ['2001:db8:42::1', '203.0.113.1'],
  network => '2001:db8:1337::/48',
  address => 'example.com',
}
```

##### 

```puppet
class { 'allknowingdns':
  listen     => ['2001:db8:42::1', '203.0.113.1'],
  network    => '2001:db8:1337::/48',
  address    => 'example.com',
  exceptions => {
    '2001:db8:1337::1' => 'a.example.com',
    '2001:db8:1337::2' => 'b.example.com'
  }
}
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `allknowingdns` class:

* [`listen`](#listen)
* [`network`](#network)
* [`address`](#address)
* [`address_prefix`](#address_prefix)
* [`exceptions`](#exceptions)
* [`upstream`](#upstream)
* [`package_name`](#package_name)

##### <a name="listen"></a>`listen`

Data type: `Array[Stdlib::IP::Address]`

Listens on the given address (IPv4 and IPv6 is supported) on port 53.

Default value: `['::1','127.0.0.1']`

##### <a name="network"></a>`network`

Data type: `String[1]`

Specifies that queries for PTR records within the given network should be answered (any query for an unconfigured network will be answered with NXDOMAIN). You need to specify at least the resolves to directive afterwards.

Default value: `'UNSET'`

##### <a name="address"></a>`address`

Data type: `String[1]`

Specifies the address to which PTR records should resolve. When answering AAAA queries, %DIGITS% will be parsed and converted back to an IPv6 address.

Default value: `'UNSET'`

##### <a name="address_prefix"></a>`address_prefix`

Data type: `String[1]`

Specifies the address prefix (before %DIGITS%) to which PTR records should resolve.

Default value: `'ipv6-'`

##### <a name="exceptions"></a>`exceptions`

Data type: `Hash`

Specifies exceptions (specific addresses for IPv6 /128)

Default value: `{}`

##### <a name="upstream"></a>`upstream`

Data type: `String[1]`

Before answering a PTR query for this network, AllKnowingDNS will ask the DNS server at address first, appending .upstream to the query.

Default value: `'UNSET'`

##### <a name="package_name"></a>`package_name`

Data type: `String[1]`

All-knowing-dns package name (depends on distribution)

Default value: `'all-knowing-dns'`

